README.md, before:

[![Travis CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/anandanand84/technicalindicators.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/anandanand84/technicalindicators)

# TechnicalIndicators

A javascript technical indicators written in javascript.


# Installation

## Node.js versions >= 6.4

``` bash
npm install --save technicalindicators
```

``` javascript
const SMA = require('technicalindicators').SMA;
```

## Node.js versions < 6.4

``` bash
npm install --save babel-polyfill
npm install --save technicalindicators
```

``` javascript
require('babel-polyfill');
const SMA = require('technicalindicators/dist/browser').SMA;
```

## Webpack

Make sure you have the following in your config file.

``` javascript
module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    mainFields: ["module", "main"]
  }
}

```

## Browser

For browser install using bower or npm, but it is necessary to include the babel-polyfill otherwise you will get an error. For example see [index.html](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/index.html "index.html")

``` bash
npm install --save technicalindicators
npm install --save babel-polyfill
bower install --save technicalindicators
```

``` html
<script src="node_modules/babel-polyfill/browser.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/technicalindicators/browser.js"></script>
```

All indicators will be available in window object. So you can just use

``` javascript
sma({period : 5, values : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9], reversedInput : true});
```

or

``` javascript
SMA.calculate({period : 5, values : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]});
```


# Playground

[Playground with code completion](http://anandanand84.github.io/technicalindicators/ "Playground")


# Available Indicators

1. [Accumulation Distribution Line (ADL)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/adl "ADL").
1. [Average Directional Index (ADX)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/directionalmovement/ADX.js "ADX").
1. [Average True Range (ATR)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/atr "ATR").
1. [Bollinger Bands (BB)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/bb "BB").
1. [Commodity Channel Index (CCI)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/oscillators/CCI.js "CCI").
1. [Force Index (FI)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/volume/ForceIndex.js "FI").
1. [Know Sure Thing (KST)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/kst "KST").
1. [Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/macd "MACD").
1. [On Balance Volume (OBV)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/obv "OBV").
1. [Parabolic Stop and Reverse (PSAR)*] (https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/momentum/PSAR.js "PSAR").
1. [Rate of Change (ROC)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/roc "ROC").
1. [Relative Strength Index (RSI)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/rsi "RSI").
1. [Simple Moving Average (SMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/sma "SMA").
1. [Stochastic Oscillator (KD)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/stochastic "KD").
1. [Triple Exponentially Smoothed Average (TRIX)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/trix "TRIX").
1. [Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/volume/VWAP.js "VWAP").
1. [Exponential Moving Average (EMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/ema "EMA").
1. [Weighted Moving Average (WMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/wma "WMA").
1. [Wilder’s Smoothing (Smoothed Moving Average, WEMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/wema "WEMA").
1. [WilliamsR (W%R)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/williamsr "W%R").


# Chart Types

1. [Renko (renko)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/chart_types/Renko.js)
1. [Heikin-Ashi (HA)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/chart_types/HeikinAshi.js)


# CandleStick Pattern

1. [Abandoned Baby](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/abandonedbaby).
1. [Bearish Engulfing Pattern](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishengulfingpattern).
1. [Bullish Engulfiing Pattern](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishengulfingpattern).
1. [Dark Cloud Cover](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/darkcloudcover).
1. [Downside Tasuki Gap](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/downsidetasukigap).
1. [Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/doji).
1. [DragonFly Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/dragonflydoji).
1. [GraveStone Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/gravestonedoji).
1. [BullishHarami](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishharami).
1. [Bearish Harami Cross](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishharamicross).
1. [Bullish Harami Cross](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishharamicross).
1. [Bullish Marubozu](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishmarubozu).
1. [Bearish Marubozu](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishmarubozu).
1. [Evening Doji Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/eveningdojistar).
1. [Evening Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/eveningstar).
1. [Bearish Harami](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishharami).
1. [Piercing Line](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/piercingline).
1. [Bullish Spinning Top](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishspinningtop).
1. [Bearish Spinning Top](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishspinningtop).
1. [Morning Doji Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/morningdojistar).
1. [Morning Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/morningstar).
1. [Three Black Crows](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/threeblackcrows).
1. [Three White Soldiers](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/threewhitesoldiers).

or

Search for all bullish or bearish using


``` javascript
var twoDayBullishInput = {
  open: [23.25,15.36],
  high: [25.10,30.87],
  close: [21.44,27.89],
  low: [20.82,14.93],
}

var bullish = require('technicalindicators').bullish;

bullish(twoDayBullishInput) //true
```


# API

There are three ways you can use to get the indicator results.

## calculate

Every indicator has a static method `calculate` which can be used to calculate the indicator without creating an object.

``` javascript
const sma = require('technicalindicators').sma;
var prices = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,12,13,15];
var period = 10;
sma({period : period, values : prices})
```

or

``` javascript
const SMA = require('technicalindicators').SMA;
var prices = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,12,13,15];
var period = 10;
SMA.calculate({period : period, values : prices})
```

## nextValue

`nextValue` method is used to get the next indicator value.

``` javascript
var sma = new SMA({period : period, values : []});
var results = [];
prices.forEach(price => {
  var result = sma.nextValue(price);
  if(result)
    results.push(result)
});
```

## getResult

This a merge of calculate and nextValue. The usual use case would be

1. Initialize indicator with available price value

1. Get results for initialized values

1. Use nextValue to get next indicator values for further tick.

    ``` javascript
    var sma = new SMA({period : period, values : prices});
    sma.getResult(); // [5.5, 6.6, 7.7, 8.9]
    sma.nextValue(16); // 10.1
    ```

    Note: Calling nextValue will not update getResult() value.

### Precision

This uses regular javascript numbers, so there can be rounding errors which are negligible for a technical indicators, you can set precision by using the below config. By default there is no precision set.

  ``` javascript
  const technicalIndicators = require('technicalindicators');
  technicalIndicators.setConfig('precision', 10);
  ```


# Contribute

Create issues about anything you want to report, change of API's, or request for adding new indicators. You can also create pull request with new indicators.

## Environment dependencies

TechnicalIndicators depends on the [`canvas` package](https://npmjs.com/canvas), which requires some dependencies to be installed. You can find the instructions to do that [here](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#installation). If you do not install these dependencies, expect to get this error message during the installation of TechnicalIndicators:

```
> canvas@1.6.6 install /Users/balupton/Projects/trading/technicalindicators/node_modules/canvas
> node-gyp rebuild

./util/has_lib.sh: line 31: pkg-config: command not found
gyp: Call to './util/has_lib.sh freetype' returned exit status 0 while in binding.gyp. while trying to load binding.gyp
```

## Setup

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:anandanand84/technicalindicators.git  # or use your fork
cd technicalindicators
npm install
gulp watch-test
```

## Running tests and getting coverage

``` bash
npm test
npm run cover
```

## Adding new indicators.

1. Add tests for the indicator. Make it pass. It would be better if a sample of the stockcharts excel is used for the test case.
1. Add the indicator to the index.js
1. Run `npm run build` so it adds the indicator to the browser.js
1. Add it to read me, with the link to the tonicdev url containing the sample.
1. Add indicator it to keywords in package.json and bower.json
1. Send a pull request.


## Verify Documentation

``` bash
node testdocs.js
open "http://localhost:5444/testdocs.html"
```


# Donate

BTC: `12eGmnhPrGuqvLNVnPddTaXm74hX68auTV`

Commit message:

Add pattern detection using keras model

README.md, after:

[![Travis CI](https://img.shields.io/travis/anandanand84/technicalindicators.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/anandanand84/technicalindicators)

# TechnicalIndicators

A javascript technical indicators written in javascript.


# Installation

## Node.js versions >= 6.4

``` bash
npm install --save technicalindicators
```

``` javascript
const SMA = require('technicalindicators').SMA;
```

## Node.js versions < 6.4

``` bash
npm install --save babel-polyfill
npm install --save technicalindicators
```

``` javascript
require('babel-polyfill');
const SMA = require('technicalindicators/dist/browser').SMA;
```

## Webpack

Make sure you have the following in your config file.

``` javascript
module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    mainFields: ["module", "main"]
  }
}

```

## Browser

For browser install using bower or npm, but it is necessary to include the babel-polyfill otherwise you will get an error. For example see [index.html](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/index.html "index.html")

``` bash
npm install --save technicalindicators
npm install --save babel-polyfill
bower install --save technicalindicators
```

``` html
<script src="node_modules/babel-polyfill/browser.js"></script>
<script src="bower_components/technicalindicators/browser.js"></script>
```

All indicators will be available in window object. So you can just use

``` javascript
sma({period : 5, values : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9], reversedInput : true});
```

or

``` javascript
SMA.calculate({period : 5, values : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]});
```


# Playground

[Playground with code completion](http://anandanand84.github.io/technicalindicators/ "Playground")

# Available Indicators

1. [Accumulation Distribution Line (ADL)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/adl "ADL").
1. [Average Directional Index (ADX)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/directionalmovement/ADX.js "ADX").
1. [Average True Range (ATR)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/atr "ATR").
1. [Bollinger Bands (BB)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/bb "BB").
1. [Commodity Channel Index (CCI)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/oscillators/CCI.js "CCI").
1. [Force Index (FI)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/volume/ForceIndex.js "FI").
1. [Know Sure Thing (KST)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/kst "KST").
1. [Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/macd "MACD").
1. [On Balance Volume (OBV)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/obv "OBV").
1. [Parabolic Stop and Reverse (PSAR)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/momentum/PSAR.js "PSAR").
1. [Rate of Change (ROC)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/roc "ROC").
1. [Relative Strength Index (RSI)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/rsi "RSI").
1. [Simple Moving Average (SMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/sma "SMA").
1. [Stochastic Oscillator (KD)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/stochastic "KD").
1. [Triple Exponentially Smoothed Average (TRIX)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/trix "TRIX").
1. [Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/volume/VWAP.js "VWAP").
1. [Exponential Moving Average (EMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/ema "EMA").
1. [Weighted Moving Average (WMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/wma "WMA").
1. [Wilder’s Smoothing (Smoothed Moving Average, WEMA)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/wema "WEMA").
1. [WilliamsR (W%R)](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/williamsr "W%R").

# Pattern Detection

1. [Pattern Detection](https://tonicdev.com/anandaravindan/patterns "Pattern Detection")

Finds pattern in the given set of data, patterns include, DB, DT, HS, IHS, TU, TD


```
  const hasHeadAndShoulder = require('technicalindicators').hasHeadAndShoulder;
  hasHeadAndShoulder({values : closes})
  isTrendingUp({values : closes})
```


When running in browser the file model.bin present in dist/model.bin in the respository should be accessible on your server at the location at /dist/model.bin.
The model is trained using 400 count of values, so try to provide values close to 400  for a reliable prediction

# Chart Types

1. [Renko (renko)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/chart_types/Renko.js)
1. [Heikin-Ashi (HA)](https://github.com/anandanand84/technicalindicators/blob/master/test/chart_types/HeikinAshi.js)


# CandleStick Pattern

1. [Abandoned Baby](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/abandonedbaby).
1. [Bearish Engulfing Pattern](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishengulfingpattern).
1. [Bullish Engulfiing Pattern](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishengulfingpattern).
1. [Dark Cloud Cover](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/darkcloudcover).
1. [Downside Tasuki Gap](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/downsidetasukigap).
1. [Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/doji).
1. [DragonFly Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/dragonflydoji).
1. [GraveStone Doji](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/gravestonedoji).
1. [BullishHarami](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishharami).
1. [Bearish Harami Cross](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishharamicross).
1. [Bullish Harami Cross](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishharamicross).
1. [Bullish Marubozu](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishmarubozu).
1. [Bearish Marubozu](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishmarubozu).
1. [Evening Doji Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/eveningdojistar).
1. [Evening Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/eveningstar).
1. [Bearish Harami](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishharami).
1. [Piercing Line](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/piercingline).
1. [Bullish Spinning Top](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bullishspinningtop).
1. [Bearish Spinning Top](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/bearishspinningtop).
1. [Morning Doji Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/morningdojistar).
1. [Morning Star](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/morningstar).
1. [Three Black Crows](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/threeblackcrows).
1. [Three White Soldiers](https://runkit.com/aarthiaradhana/threewhitesoldiers).

or

Search for all bullish or bearish using


``` javascript
var twoDayBullishInput = {
  open: [23.25,15.36],
  high: [25.10,30.87],
  close: [21.44,27.89],
  low: [20.82,14.93],
}

var bullish = require('technicalindicators').bullish;

bullish(twoDayBullishInput) //true
```


# API

There are three ways you can use to get the indicator results.

## calculate

Every indicator has a static method `calculate` which can be used to calculate the indicator without creating an object.

``` javascript
const sma = require('technicalindicators').sma;
var prices = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,12,13,15];
var period = 10;
sma({period : period, values : prices})
```

or

``` javascript
const SMA = require('technicalindicators').SMA;
var prices = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,12,13,15];
var period = 10;
SMA.calculate({period : period, values : prices})
```

## nextValue

`nextValue` method is used to get the next indicator value.

``` javascript
var sma = new SMA({period : period, values : []});
var results = [];
prices.forEach(price => {
  var result = sma.nextValue(price);
  if(result)
    results.push(result)
});
```

## getResult

This a merge of calculate and nextValue. The usual use case would be

1. Initialize indicator with available price value

1. Get results for initialized values

1. Use nextValue to get next indicator values for further tick.

    ``` javascript
    var sma = new SMA({period : period, values : prices});
    sma.getResult(); // [5.5, 6.6, 7.7, 8.9]
    sma.nextValue(16); // 10.1
    ```

    Note: Calling nextValue will not update getResult() value.

### Precision

This uses regular javascript numbers, so there can be rounding errors which are negligible for a technical indicators, you can set precision by using the below config. By default there is no precision set.

  ``` javascript
  const technicalIndicators = require('technicalindicators');
  technicalIndicators.setConfig('precision', 10);
  ```


# Contribute

Create issues about anything you want to report, change of API's, or request for adding new indicators. You can also create pull request with new indicators.

## Environment dependencies

TechnicalIndicators depends on the [`canvas` package](https://npmjs.com/canvas), which requires some dependencies to be installed. You can find the instructions to do that [here](https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#installation). If you do not install these dependencies, expect to get this error message during the installation of TechnicalIndicators:

```
> canvas@1.6.6 install /Users/balupton/Projects/trading/technicalindicators/node_modules/canvas
> node-gyp rebuild

./util/has_lib.sh: line 31: pkg-config: command not found
gyp: Call to './util/has_lib.sh freetype' returned exit status 0 while in binding.gyp. while trying to load binding.gyp
```

## Setup

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:anandanand84/technicalindicators.git  # or use your fork
cd technicalindicators
npm install
gulp watch-test
```

## Running tests and getting coverage

``` bash
npm test
npm run cover
```

## Adding new indicators.

1. Add tests for the indicator. Make it pass. It would be better if a sample of the stockcharts excel is used for the test case.
1. Add the indicator to the index.js
1. Run `npm run build` so it adds the indicator to the browser.js
1. Add it to read me, with the link to the tonicdev url containing the sample.
1. Add indicator it to keywords in package.json and bower.json
1. Send a pull request.


## Verify Documentation

``` bash
node testdocs.js
open "http://localhost:5444/testdocs.html"
```


# Donate

BTC: `12eGmnhPrGuqvLNVnPddTaXm74hX68auTV`
